---
layout: post
title: Media Ideologies within Wearable Technology
tags:
- sshis-200-07-digital-cultures
---

Staying connected to other people in today’s society has never been easier and change happens at a rapid pace.  This accessibility can be tricky, though, based on the communication profile of the individual with whom one is interacting.  The gauge or scale of interaction that we have with an individual can vary drastically as does how each of us feels during these interactions. For instance, some people crave in-person interaction while others find digital communication as meaningful if not more valuable and easier.  Modes of communication, from e-mail to handwritten letters to tweeting can create vastly different levels of connectivity for individuals, often based on one’s own individual perceptions.

    As a social race we are often trying to define new ways of communicating and what it means to those around us.  A new piece of technology that will add another level of connectivity to our world is the Apple watch.  This product will allow the user to send one’s heartbeat on to someone else though his or her Apple watch.  While this could seem like a gimmick, I see something deeper here.  Through a remote connection you are sending the most intimate of vital signs: one’s heart beat.  Another person could literally feel your heart beating through his or her watch and potentially have a physical connection with the sender though they aren’t next to one another.  This type of intentional, physical interaction through digital means has the potential to disrupt what we traditionally mean by physical communication.  Two individuals are exchanging a very personal type of information between one another, a type of information that cannot be typed. 

    While it is often easier to send written forms of communication, one may lose the intentional nature of personal communication.  For example, texts don’t contain various communication cues such as intonation, pace of speech, and body language.  Communication can become stripped down in a negative way when we lose these important elements of context for the sake of the expediency of a text.  Just as the Apple watch can send a heart beat, Apple’s new text feature now has an auditory component allowing you to send a voice text over your device.  This feature may seem inconsequential.  Rather, I believe it increases the human nature of what otherwise would be a sterile text while taking advantage of the efficiency of the mode of texting.  Given the importance of interpersonal communication, it will be important for humanity to continue to consider the goals of any communication tool before choosing a format or mode that will reflect our intentions. 

    These innovations will serve as yet another litmus test for how humans choose to communicate.  It’s hard to tell whether these features will stick or fade away in time.  Yet, we do know that new technologies and wearables will continue to redefine how we communicate, regardless of location around the globe.